How you’ll learn to tell stories with data: 6 lessons
1. Understand the context
2. Choose an appropriate visual display
3. Eliminate clutter
4. Focus attention where you want it
5. Think like a designer
6. Tell a story

Who, what, and how
First, To whom are you communicating?  
- specific about who your audience is
- the relationship that you have with your audience and how you expect that they will perceive you.

Second, What do you want your audience to know or do? 
If you are the one analyzing and communicating the data, you likely know it best—you are a subject matter expert.

It’s only after you can concisely answer these first two questions that you’re ready to move forward with the third: How can you use data to help make your point?
What data is available that will help make my point? 

If you’re on the requesting side of the communication and asking your support team to build a communication, think about answering these questions for them up front:
What background information is relevant or essential?
Who is the audience or decision maker? What do we know about them?
What biases does our audience have that might make them supportive of or resistant to our message?
What data is available that would strengthen our case? Is our audience familiar with this data, or is it new?
Where are the risks: what factors could weaken our case and do we need to proactively address them?
What would a successful outcome look like?
If you only had a limited amount of time or a single sentence to tell your audience what they need to know, what would you say?

Understanding and employing concepts like the 3-minute story, the Big Idea, and storyboarding will enable you to clearly and succinctly tell your story and identify the desired flow.

------------//--------------
chapter 2
Choosing an effective visual

Simple text
When you have just a number or two that you want to communicate: use the numbers directly.

Tables
If you need to communicate multiple different units of measure, this is also typically easier with a table than a graph.
